[AUDIENCE] I would like to know what you think about hard forks as a way to evolve protocols in blockchains?
[ANDREAS] What do we think of hard
forks as a way to evolve protocols?
So I'm a big fan of automotive crash tests, right?
I'm a big fan, I think one of the reasons we have safe automobiles is because of automotive crash tests.
I'm also a big fan of using dummies
in the automotive crash tests, where I'm not the passenger. [Laughter] Right?
Now if someone said, "We have a new bus.
Everybody get on. We don't know how
it works, but we're gonna run a crash test to find out.
Jump on!" That's how I feel about hard forks.
I would rather not be in the crash test
when the crash test is happening.
Hard forks are dangerous. They're difficult,
complex, and have unintended behaviours.
Hard forks bring together the nexus
of politics, community response...
...independent economic agents, self-interest,
monetary policy, and technology.
Any one of those can go wrong.
In a recent example, we saw a hard fork in Ethereum.
The hard fork, technologically, was perfect.
Perfect!
Economically, politically, in terms of the community
and self-interested actors? Not so perfect.
10% of the economic activity, community, hash rate, ended up forking off to a separate coin.
Now there's two systems with
competing interests and competing designs.
I would rather not see that in Bitcoin.
I'm a bit skeptical of [hard forks] being used as the mechanism to rapidly iterate and mature the protocol.
But that's one of the design trade-offs that's
different about Ethereum. Its design trade-off is...
Because of its model, it needs to iterate a lot more to reach the same level of security / maturity as Bitcoin.
Because it has a larger attack surface, a larger exposure surface, it's going to go through a lot more hard forks.
Is that a good thing?
Is that a bad thing?
It depends what you're trying to use it for.
I don't think it makes for very good
sound money or a robust platform.
But that's a trade-off that allows it to actually have
much more flexible application development.
I'm interested in that.
I think that's the choice I would make for Ethereum.
It's not the choice I would make for Bitcoin.
Does that help?
A bit of an esoteric topic.